[DPE-4924] Add release notes to documentation (#223)
canonical/kafka-operator: docs/reference/releases/rev156_126.md

# Revision 156/126
<sub>Wednesday, February 28, 2024</sub>

Dear community,

> We are extremely thrilled and excited to share that Charmed Kafka and Charmed ZooKeeper have now been released as GA. You can find them in [charmhub.io](https://charmhub.io/) under the `3/stable` track.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
"We are thrilled to announce that [Charmed Kafka](https://charmhub.io/kafka) and [Charmed ZooKeeper](https://charmhub.io/zookeeper) have reached General Availability (GA). You can find them on [charmhub.io](https://charmhub.io/) under the `3/stable` track."
```

Author: I just did copy and paste of the annoucements we did in the public channel. I'll keep the phrasing as it was the original one.

> 
> More information are available in the [Canonical website](https://canonical.com/data/kafka), alongside its [documentation](https://canonical.com/data/docs/kafka/iaas).
> Also find the full announcement of the release [here](https://canonical.com/blog/charmed-kafka-general-availability) and [here](https://discourse.charmhub.io/t/announcing-general-availability-of-charmed-kafka/13277). 
> And more importantly, make sure you don't miss out the [webinar](https://www.linkedin.com/events/7161727829259366401/about/) that Raúl Zamora and Rob Gibbon will be holding later today.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The full version of the announcement can be seen in our [blog](https://canonical.com/blog/charmed-kafka-general-availability) and [forum](https://discourse.charmhub.io/t/announcing-general-availability-of-charmed-kafka/13277). 
For more information on Charmed Kafka, see the [Canonical website](https://canonical.com/data/kafka), [documentation](https://canonical.com/data/docs/kafka/iaas), and our webinar [Introduction to Apache Kafka](https://www.linkedin.com/events/7161727829259366401/about/) by Raúl Zamora and Rob Gibbon.
```
Some suggestions on wording.
Also, the webinar announcement should be more specific on the topic and less bound to the current date (ideally, we want it to stay correct before, during, and after the webinar).

Author: as above

> Please reach out should you have any question, comment, feedback or information. You can find us here in [Matrix](https://matrix.to/#/#charmhub-data-platform:ubuntu.com) or also on [Discourse](https://discourse.charmhub.io/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Please feel free to reach out to us should you have any questions, comments, or feedback. You can find us here in [Matrix](https://matrix.to/#/#charmhub-data-platform:ubuntu.com) or on [Discourse](https://discourse.charmhub.io/).
```

Author: as above

> ## Features you can start using today:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Features
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Here is the list of features you can start using today:

```

* Deploying on VM (tested with LXD, MAAS)
* ZooKeeper using SASL authentication

> * Scaling up/down in one simple juju command

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Scaling up/down in one simple Juju command
```

* Multi-broker support and Highly-Available setups
* Inter-broker authenticated communication
* TLS/SSL support using `tls-certificates` Provider charms (see more [here](https://charmhub.io/topics/security-with-x-509-certificates))
* SASL/SCRAM and mTLS authentication for clients
* DB access outside of Juju using [`data-integrator`](https://charmhub.io/data-integrator)
* Persistent storage support with Juju Storage
* Super-user creation
* Documentation featuring Diàtaxis framework

Canonical Data issues are now public on both [Jira](https://warthogs.atlassian.net/jira/software/c/projects/DPE/issues/) 
and [GitHub](https://github.com/canonical/kafka-operator/issues) platforms.

[GitHub Releases](https://github.com/canonical/kafka-operator/releases) provide a detailed list of bugfixes, PRs, and commits for each revision.

> ## Inside the charms:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Versions
```

> * Charmed ZooKeeper charm ships the ZooKeeper [3.8.2-ubuntu0](https://launchpad.net/zookeeper-releases/3.x/3.8.2-ubuntu0), built and supported by Canonical
> * Charmed Kafka charm ships the Kafka [3.6.0-ubuntu0](https://launchpad.net/kafka-releases/3.x/3.6.0-ubuntu0), built and supported by Canonical
> * Charmed ZooKeeper charm is based on [charmed-zookeeper snap](https://snapcraft.io/charmed-zookeeper) on the `3/stable` (Ubuntu LTS “22.04” - core22-based)
> * Charmed Kafka charm is based on [charmed-kafka snap](https://snapcraft.io/charmed-kafka) on the `3/stable` channel (Ubuntu LTS “22.04” - core22-based)
> * Principal charms supports the latest LTS series “22.04” only.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Principal charms support the latest LTS series “22.04”:

* ZooKeeper charm is based on the [`charmed-zookeeper` snap](https://snapcraft.io/charmed-zookeeper) on the `3/stable` (Ubuntu 22.04 LTS - core22-based) and ships the ZooKeeper [3.8.2-ubuntu0](https://launchpad.net/zookeeper-releases/3.x/3.8.2-ubuntu0), built and supported by Canonical.
* Kafka charm is based on the [`charmed-kafka` snap](https://snapcraft.io/charmed-kafka) on the `3/stable` channel (Ubuntu 22.04 LTS - core22-based) and ships the Kafka [3.6.0-ubuntu0](https://launchpad.net/kafka-releases/3.x/3.6.0-ubuntu0), built and supported by Canonical.
```

More information about the artifacts are provided by the following table:

| Artifact               | Track/Series | Version/Revision | Code                                                                                                                |
|------------------------|--------------|------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|

> | zookeeper distribution | 3.x          | 3.8.2-ubuntu0    | [5bb82d](https://git.launchpad.net/zookeeper-releases/tree/?h=lp-3.8.2&id=5bb82df4ffba910a5b30dd42499921466405f087) |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| ZooKeeper distribution | 3.x          | 3.8.2-ubuntu0    | [5bb82d](https://git.launchpad.net/zookeeper-releases/tree/?h=lp-3.8.2&id=5bb82df4ffba910a5b30dd42499921466405f087) |
```

> | kafka distribution     | 3.x          | 3.6.0-ubuntu0    | [424389](https://git.launchpad.net/kafka-releases/tree/?h=lp-3.6.0&id=424389bb8f230beaef4ccb94aca464b5d22ac310)     |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Kafka distribution     | 3.x          | 3.6.0-ubuntu0    | [424389](https://git.launchpad.net/kafka-releases/tree/?h=lp-3.6.0&id=424389bb8f230beaef4ccb94aca464b5d22ac310)     |
```

> | charmed-zookeeper-snap | 3/stable     | 28               | [9757f4](https://github.com/canonical/charmed-zookeeper-snap/tree/9757f4a2a889981275f8f2a1a87e1c78ae1adb77)         |        

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `charmed-zookeeper-snap` | 3/stable     | 28               | [9757f4](https://github.com/canonical/charmed-zookeeper-snap/tree/9757f4a2a889981275f8f2a1a87e1c78ae1adb77)         |        
```

> | zookeeper-operator     | 3/stable     | 126              | [9ebd9a](https://github.com/canonical/zookeeper-operator/commit/9ebd9a2050e0bd626feb0019222d45f211ca7774)           | 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `zookeeper-operator`     | 3/stable     | 126              | [9ebd9a](https://github.com/canonical/zookeeper-operator/commit/9ebd9a2050e0bd626feb0019222d45f211ca7774)           | 
```

> | charmed-kafka-snap     | 3/stable     | 30               | [c0ce27](https://github.com/canonical/charmed-kafka-snap/tree/c0ce275f70f688e66f10f295456d2b5ff33d4f64)             |  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `charmed-kafka-snap`     | 3/stable     | 30               | [c0ce27](https://github.com/canonical/charmed-kafka-snap/tree/c0ce275f70f688e66f10f295456d2b5ff33d4f64)             |  
```

> | kafka-operator         | 3/stable     | 156              | [01d65c](https://github.com/canonical/kafka-operator/tree/01d65c3444b593d5f18d197a6514421afd3f2bc6)                 |   

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `kafka-operator`         | 3/stable     | 156              | [01d65c](https://github.com/canonical/kafka-operator/tree/01d65c3444b593d5f18d197a6514421afd3f2bc6)                 |   
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

## Technical notes

> * Kafka cluster is secured-by default, meaning that when deployed if there are no client charms related to it, external listeners will not be enabled.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* A Charmed Kafka cluster is secure by default, meaning that when deployed if there are no client charms related to it, external listeners will not be enabled.
```

* We recommend to deploy one `data-integrator` with `extra-user-roles=admin` alongside the Kafka deployment, in order to enable listeners and also create one user with elevated permission 

>   to perform administrative tasks. See the [How-to manage application](/t/charmed-kafka-documentation-how-to-manage-app/10285) userguide for more information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  to perform administrative tasks. For more information, see the [How-to manage application](/t/charmed-kafka-documentation-how-to-manage-app/10285) guide
```

> * The current release was tested and provides compatibility with Juju 2.9.45+ and Juju 3.1+

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The current release has been tested and provides compatibility with Juju 2.9.45+ and Juju 3.1+.
```

> * Inplace upgrade for charms tracking `latest` is not supported, both for ZooKeeper and Kafka. Perform a migration of the data to upgrade to a Kafka cluster managed via a `3/stable` charm. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Inplace upgrade for charms tracking `latest` is not supported, both for ZooKeeper and Kafka charms. Perform data migration to upgrade to a Charmed Kafka cluster managed via a `3/stable` charm. 
```

>   See [How-to migrate a cluster](/t/charmed-kafka-documentation-how-to-migrate-a-cluster/10951) userguide for more information on how to achieve this. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  For more information on how to do that, see the [How-to migrate a cluster](/t/charmed-kafka-documentation-how-to-migrate-a-cluster/10951) guide. 
```
